### {{page-title}}

**Trial Use** – this asset within the specification has been well reviewed and is considered for use in production systems. It has been subjected to ballot and approved as a standard. Within the IG this is illustrated by the xx icon

**Draft** – this asset within the specification is not considered to be complete enough or sufficiently reviewed to be safe for implementation. It may have known issues or still be in the "in development" stage. It is included in the publication as a place-holder, to solicit feedback from the implementation community and/or to give implementers some insight as to functionality likely to be included in future versions of the specification. Content at this level should only be implemented by the brave or desperate and is very much "use at your own risk". The content that is Draft that will usually be elevated to Trial Use once review and correction is complete after it has been subjected to ballot. Within the IG this is illustrated by the xx icon

**Normative** – this asset within the specification is stable and locked for backward compatibility. While changes are possible, they are expected to be infrequent and are tightly constrained i.e. changes should not be made to Normative content unless the release or asset is fundamentally unimplementable or the change is urgent and low impact to the community. Within the IG this is illustrated by the xx icon

**Deprecated** – this asset within the specification is earmarked for withdrawal in a future version. Implementers who already support it should continue to do so for backward compatibility. It should not be used in new implementations. Where an asset is categorised as Deprecated there will be additional guidance on what to use as an alternative. Within the IG this is illustrated by the xx icon
