### {{page-title}}

**Experimental** - This resource is authored for testing purposes and is not intended for use in production. It enables experimental content to be developed following the same lifecycle that would be used for a production-level structure definition. **Consequently, this status may only be visible to the public in specific environments.** Within the Implementation Guide this is illustrated by the <span style="background-color:red;color:#fff;">E</span> icon.

**Draft** – This resource is still under development and is not yet considered to be ready for normal use. It may have known issues or still be in the "in development" stage. It is included in the production environment for review or to solicit feedback from the implementation community. It is not recommended for production use and implementation is "use at your own risk". Within the Implementation Guide this is illustrated by the <span style="background-color:orange;color:white;">Draft</span> icon.

**Active** - This resource has been subjected to ballot and approved as a standard. It is considered by the authors to be ready for use in production systems, however it may not yet have seen widespread use in production across the full spectrum of environments as is intended. In some cases, there may be documented known issues that require implementation experience to determine appropriate resolutions. Within the Implementation Guide this is illustrated by the <span style="background-color:green;color:white;">Active</span> icon.

**Retired** – This resource has been withdrawn or superseded and should no longer be used. Implementers who already support it should continue to do so for backward compatibility. It should not be used in new implementations. Where a resource is categorised as Retired there will be additional guidance on what to use as an alternative. Within the Implementation Guide this is illustrated by the <span style="background-color:grey;color:white;">Retired</span> icon.
